                        The Andrew Distribution 

                      Andrew User Interface System
                      Version 8.0  (January, 1997)

CAVEAT:  This version of Andrew has not been extensively tested.
The contact information listed below is obsolete.


                Andrew Consortium
                School of Computer Science
                Carnegie Mellon University
                5000 Forbes Avenue
                Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3891
                USA

    Phone:                      (412) 268-6710
    Fax:                        (412) 268-5576
    Web:                        http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~AUIS
    Demo:                       finger @atk.cs.cmu.edu
    Archives:           ftp.andrew.cmu.edu:  /pub/AUIS
    Bugs:                       info-andrew-bugs@andrew.cmu.edu
    Info & Subscriptions:       info-andrew-request@andrew.cmu.edu





        In the documentation, the source directory will be
        referred to as $/ and the destination as $ANDREWDIR/.

        If you are reading an all-ASCII version of this file,
        the version in Andrew format is in the distribution at:

                 $ANDREWDIR/doc/ADMINISTRATOR/README.ez






Copyright Carnegie Mellon University 1991, 1996 - All Rights Reserved
Copyright IBM Corporation 1988, 1991 - All Rights Reserved.
 Please see further copyrights and disclaimer at the end of this file.

1.	Introduction

This document describes the Andrew User Interface System, commonly
called "AUIS" or just "Andrew."

Andrew is a compound document architecture: documents may contain
typographic styles and embedded objects.  As applications, Andrew offers
a word processor, program editor, web browser, drawing editor,
spreadsheet, mail/bboard reader/writer/manager, and numerous other
tools.  With the Andrew Toolkit, users can construct new embeddable
objects and entirely new applications.  

Andrew runs on most popular Unix platforms and under the X11 Windowing System.

This release includes innumerable bug fixes and evolutionary
improvements to many of Andrew's components, including the transition to
C++, support for recursive searching, web browsing, and printing
directly to PostScript (a trademark of Adobe, Inc.).

File name references found in this document that start with ./ are
relative to the top-level of the source tree.  
 
2.	Distribution Documents

Documentation on the Andrew User Interface System will be found in the
source distribution at: $ANDREWDIR/doc.  Information is categorized into
subdirectories for these four types of user queries:  /ADMINISTRATOR,
/DEVELOPER, /PROGRAMMER, /HELP.

COPYRITE  (installed in top level and in config/)
	The copyright for Andrew.
README
	This file.
INSTALL
	Installation instructions.
FAQ
	Frequently asked questions and answers.
CONTENTS
	Annotated list of selected source files and directories.
FilesList
	List of all source directories and files constituting Andrew.
	Suitable for grep'ping to find a file by name.
Porting
	Guide to porting Andrew to new platforms.
	First check with us to see if a port exists.
protosys.h
	Prototype of platform dependent system.h.
	See Porting file.
Imakefile
	Commands to run the installation process.

 . . .   among others.
 
3.	Installation

If you are reading this file as part of a source distribution and wish
to install Andrew8, please see instructions in the file INSTALL.ez. 
This file is also in the distribution at:

 $ANDREWDIR/doc/ADMINISTRATOR/INSTALL.ez

 
4.	The Tar Distribution

The tar distribution of Andrew consists of six tar'red and gzip'ped
files, as listed below.  They can be transferred and expanded
individually.  The first two alone install a viable Andrew system.

The following commands to csh will extract the sources from the tar.gz files:

	% foreach f (auis1 auis2 auis3 auis4 contrib doc)
	? gunzip < $f.tar.gz | tar -xvf - 
	? end

(gunzip is available from the Free Software Foundation,  ftp to
prep.ai.mit.edu or a clone and fetch pub/gnu/gzip...tar)

The following chart of the .tar.gz files lists for each: the file name,
description, size in megabytes, and contained source directories, (where
'.' is the top of the source tree).

environs.tar.gz - various fundamental or small files   (12 MB)
	., ./config, ./overhead, ./ossupport, ./inst, ./helpindex, ./xmkfontd,
./doc, ./funcloc, ./megarunapp
atk.tar.gz - atk core programs  (10 MB)
	atk/: apps apt atkvers basics createinset ctext doc extensions ez
ezprint figure frame glist image lookz raster srctext support
supportviews text textaux textobjects typescript utils widgets 
auis.tar.gz - atk applications  (11 MB)
	./WWW, ./atk/: adew bush chart console  controllers datacat eq examples
fad form help hyplink launchapp layout  lset ness org prefed rofftext
syntax table toez value web
ams.tar.gz - Andrew Message System and Messages  (5 MB)
	./ams, ./atkams 
contrib.tar.gz - contributed and unsupported code  (9 MB)
	./contrib
papers.tar.gz - selected papers   (3 MB)
		./doc/papers

A minimal system consists of environs and atk.  To this can be added any
combination of auis, ams, and contrib.


5.	Remote Demo Service

Try out Andrew from your own work station--using the X11 window
system--via the Andrew Remote Demo Service. You will be able to compose
multimedia documents, navigate through the interactive Andrew Tour, and
use the Andrew Message System to browse through a few of CMU's four
thousand bulletin boards and newsgroups.  To get started, simply run the
following command on your machine:

		finger @atk.cs.cmu.edu 
  
6.	Components of the Andrew System

The following components are available in Andrew6.3 and later versions. 
Some respond to frequently requested applications in X, such as: 

    word processor --> ez
    drawing editor --> figure
    mail and news reader --> messages
    font editor --> bdffont
    documentation browser --> help
    directory browser --> bush

 Andrew applications (graphic and interactive)

    bdffont - font editor (for fonts in bdf format)
    bush - directory browser
    console - shell interface / terminal replacement
    ez - word processor and program editor
    help - documentation browser  (includes all AUIS help files)
    launch - provides a menu of AUIS applications
    messages - mail and news reader, manager, and composer
    pipescript - viewer useful as stdout
    prefed - preferences editor
    sendmessage - application for sending a message or news posting
    typescript - shell interface (terminal substitute)

Graphical, interactive editors that are both applications and insets

    eq - equation inset
    fad - animation editor
    figure - drawing editor
    ness - extension and string processing language
    org - display and edit hierarchies
    page - allow flipping between pages
    raster - editor for monochrome bitmapped images
    table - table / spreadsheet inset
    text - text, document, and program editor (the heart of ez and
        other applications)

Commonly used non-interactive Andrew applications

    datacat - concatenate ATK files
    ezprint - print an ATK document
    nessrun - runs a Ness script (the extension and string
        processing language)
    preview - preview an ATK document on screen

 File format converters

    from ATK to: RTF, ASCII, PostScript, troff
    to ATK from: ppm, Scribe, RTF, troff, X window dump
    convertraster - various raster formats

Embeddable insets not usually used as applications

    clock - analog clock
    eq - equations
    header - specify document headers and footers
    image - display images from many formats: jpeg, gif, tiff, ...
    link - hypertext-like link
    month - display calendar for a month
    note - annotation
    text - the text object itself
    timeoday - digital clock
    writestamp - time file was written

Editing tools

    compchar - keyboard input of characters for European languages
    compile - support compilation and error review
    complete - filename completion for typescript
    dired - directory browser
    dsearch - dynamic search
    ezdiff - compare two ASCII files
    filter - process a region of a document through a shell command
    isearch - incremental search
    lookz - style table editor
    spell - spelling correction (uses ispell)

Source text editing tools

    for assembler, C++, C, Lisp, man pages, Modula, Modula-3, Pascal

Tools for constructing insets and applications

    arb - ADEW application builder interface
    bison - GNU parser generator (enhanced)
    createcon - ADEW tool to generate C code for interface
    createinset - create a prototypical inset under a new name
    genmake - Makefile generator for classC
    genstatl - generate statically loadable application
    gentlex - lexical analyzer generator
    parser - object to encapsulate a bison parser
    runadew - runtime for ADEW application builder
    sym - symbol table object
    whichdo - find an inset on the CLASSPATH

Additional insets available for building applications

    button, display text string, entry of labeled text string, four
    position switch, multiple buttons, multiple sliders, multiple string
    entry, on/off switch, slider, slider controlling array of strings,
    text list, thumb knob

7.	Platforms

The Andrew Consortium staff runs Andrew on several platforms: RS/6000
AIX3.2,  Sun4 4.1.3, Pmax Ultrix 4.3a, HP-UX 9.03, and Linux.  In
earlier versions Andrew has also worked on other systems, such as: other
OS versions from the above vendors, PS/2 AIX, Power PC, Vax Ultrix
{3.1,4.2,BSD}, DEC MIPS, SCO I386, SGI IRIX 4.0, Apollo, NeXT (under
X11), NetBSD (for i386 machines), BSDI/386 (for i386 machines), and
Macintosh II MacMach.  Considerable effort has been devoted to
simplifying the construction of ports to other architectures;  the
process is described in these files:

                     $/doc/atkprogramming/Porting.ez
                   $ANDREWDIR/doc/DEVELOPER/Porting.ez


8.	Binary Distributions

A binary distribution (excluding source code) is available as Andrew7.5.
 The binaries are installed by loading up to six "packages," the first
of which must be

	w - the word processing package 

With this package alone, the binary should work. It is not necessary to
load everything onto your system, but if you choose to, you may then
also install any of these additional packages at your site:

	h - 'help' browser, help documents, and source code editors for:
        assembler c c++ help-files idl lisp modula-2 modula-3
        pascal perl rexx
        i  -  major insets: figure, image, raster, table; the ness
        scripting language and the ADEW developer's tool
        m - mail and bulletin board reader, write, and manager
	d - programmer documentation
	a - everything not included in the above

The sub-directory for each system has a README file describing Andrew7.5
and an INSTALL file with detailed installation instructions. 

The binaries have been used successfully on at least these platforms:

    rs_aix325           IBM RS/6000 (AIX 3.2.5)
    pa1.1-hpux90        Hewlett-Packard 720 (HPUX 9.0)
    pmax_ultrix43       DECstation 3100 PMAX (Ultrix  4.3)
    sparc_sunos413      SUN Sparcstation  (SunOS 4.1.3)
    sparc_sunos54       SUN Sparcstation (Solaris 2.4)
    ix86_linux          Intel x86 (Linux: Redhat & Slackware)

Sources and binaries are available online from the Andrew Consortium web
page at http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~AUIS or from the ftp site at
ftp.andrew.cmu.edu: pub/AUIS/bin-dist.  Taped versions are also
available by U.S. mail for a nominal fee.

For further information, please contact the Andrew Consortium at (412)
268-6710 or via email at <info-andrew-request@andrew.cmu.edu>.

9.	Membership in the Andrew Consortium

The School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University has
established the Andrew Consortium to maintain and enhance the Andrew
User Interface System (Andrew).

The Consortium offers outside organizations the opportunity to help
shape the future of the system. Participate in the development of
Andrew, utilize the latest advances by our technical staff, and
undertake commercial exploitation with the active cooperation of the
developers.

The efforts of the Andrew Consortium staff are directed toward: 

    + increased quality in existing media;
    + enhancements, including a direct manipulation interface builder;
    + embedding of applications such as generic X applications;
    + increased potential for transition from Andrew to successor systems;
    + interoperability with standards such as Posix, Motif, C++, OLE, 
    and SGML.

The Consortium makes its most up-to-date source release, currently
Andrew8, available only to members.  The current publicly available
binary release is Andrew7.5. 

Membership in the Consortium is offered to organizations interested in
exploiting Andrew technology within their operations or products.  All
members support the Consortium as it:

    + Enhances, maintains, and distributes the Andrew software base.
    + Conducts an annual meeting to review progress and set priorities.
    + Distributes a quarterly newsletter
    + Monitors the info-andrew mailing list.

We offer memberships at four levels: Participating, Full, Contributing
and Associate. You are cordially invited to join us.

Please contact our Director, Fred Hansen <wjh@andrew.cmu.edu> to discuss
the opportunities that the Consortium has to offer.

10.	Hard Copy Documentation

Hard copy user and programmer documentation is available by U.S. mail
for a nominal fee.  A User's Guide to the Andrew User Interface System
is also available for $25.   For further information, please contact the
Andrew Consortium at (412) 268-6710 or via email at:

	<info-andrew-request@andrew.cmu.edu>.

11.	Mailing Lists

There are two* mailing lists read by the developers and others
interested in Andrew. The first is a bug report list moderated by
members of the Andrew Consortium. 

    info-andrew-bugs@andrew.cmu.edu

The second is an unmoderated list devoted (but not limited) to getting,
compiling, and installing Andrew, announcements, bug reports, fixes, and
requests for features. This address is: 

    info-andrew@andrew.cmu.edu

Subscription requests should be sent to:

    info-andrew-request@andrew.cmu.edu

When you send in a request, you will be put on the distribution list. If
you are running the Andrew Message System, you can request to be put on
the multimedia list. This list receives exactly the same messages as
info-andrew, plus multimedia messages in Andrew format are delivered
intact. If you don't request multimedia, by default you will be put on
the non-multimedia list.

(*) The info-andrew@andrew.cmu.edu address is bi-directionally gatewayed
with the Netnews group comp.soft-sys.andrew. You do not/can not
subscribe to the netnews group through us, and the netnews group
contains ONLY non-multiintmedia posts.  Contact your local postmaster
for instructions on subscribing to netnews groups. 

Copyrights for this file and the entire Andrew User Interface System:

    Copyright Carnegie Mellon University 1991, 1996 - All Rights Reserved
    Copyright IBM Corporation 1988, 1991 - All Rights Reserved
    Additional copyright information can be found in
    config/COPYRITE.bls, config/COPYRITE.att, and config/COPYRITE.img in
    both the source and destination areas. This product includes
    software developed by the
    University of California, Berkeley and its contributors.

$Disclaimer: # Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
software and its # documentation for any purpose and without fee is
hereby granted, provided # that the above copyright notice appear in all
copies and that both that # copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting # documentation, and that the name of IBM not be
used in advertising or # publicity pertaining to distribution of the
software without specific, # written prior permission. #                
        # THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD # TO
THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF # MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL ANY COPYRIGHT # HOLDER BE LIABLE FOR ANY
SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL # DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, # DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF
CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE # OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION # WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE. # #  $
